README.md, before:

[![Teo-body Homepage](https://img.shields.io/badge/teo-body-orange.svg)](http://robots.uc3m.es/dox-teo-body) [![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body.svg?label=Latest Release)](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/tags)

Source code intended for the manipulation and locomotion PCs that the TEO humanoid robot uses (e.g. CAN bus / CANopen).

Link to Doxygen generated documentation: http://robots.uc3m.es/dox-teo-body

## Contributing

#### Posting Issues

1. Read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
2. [Post an issue / Feature request / Specific documentation request](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/issues)

#### Fork & Pull Request

1. [Fork the repository](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/fork)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`) off the `develop` branch, following the [GitFlow git workflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow)
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

## Status

[![Build Status (Linux/OSX)](https://img.shields.io/travis/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/master.svg?label=Build Status (Linux/OSX))](https://travis-ci.org/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body)

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body)

[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body.svg?label=Issues)](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/issues)

Commit message:

Add installation link in README.md for #53

README.md, after:

[![Teo-body Homepage](https://img.shields.io/badge/teo-body-orange.svg)](http://robots.uc3m.es/dox-teo-body) [![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body.svg?label=Latest Release)](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/tags)

Source code intended for the manipulation and locomotion PCs that the TEO humanoid robot uses (e.g. CAN bus / CANopen).

Link to Doxygen generated documentation: http://robots.uc3m.es/dox-teo-body

## Installation

Installation instructions for installing from source can be found [here](http://robots.uc3m.es/dox-teo-body/teo_body_install_on_debian_6.html).

## Contributing

#### Posting Issues

1. Read [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
2. [Post an issue / Feature request / Specific documentation request](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/issues)

#### Fork & Pull Request

1. [Fork the repository](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/fork)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`) off the `develop` branch, following the [GitFlow git workflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow)
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

## Status

[![Build Status (Linux/OSX)](https://img.shields.io/travis/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/master.svg?label=Build Status (Linux/OSX))](https://travis-ci.org/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body)

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body)

[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body.svg?label=Issues)](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/teo-body/issues)
