doc/yarp-devices-install.md, before:

# Installation from Source Code

This repository stores different YARP devices for different actual devices used in different robots. This huge variability in hardware sometimes makes it complicated to track the dependencies for each device you may want to compile and install. 

This guide aims to simplify as much as possible the process of finding out which are the dependencies you actually need to install for the devices you want to use.

## OS Requirements

Some of the devices require a specific OS version to work. This table tracks the OS requirements:

* :white_check_mark: The device works in this OS.
* :x:  The device won't work on this OS.
* :question: The device hasn't been tested on this OS yet.


| OS                                                   | OneCanBusOneWrapper | TwoCanBusThreeWrappers | AravisGigE         | CanBusControlboard | CanBusHico         | CuiAbsolute        | FakeJoint          | Jr3                | LacqueyFetch       | LeapMotionSensor   | ProximitySensorsClient | SpaceNavigator     | TechnosoftIpos     | TextilesHand       | WiimoteSensor      | AravisGigEController |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | :-----------------: | :--------------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :--------------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :------------------: |
| [Debian 6.0.10](yarp-devices-install-on-debian-6.md) | :white_check_mark:  | :white_check_mark:     | :question:         | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :question:         | :white_check_mark:     | :question:         | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :question:         | :question:           |
| Ubuntu 14.04 (and derivatives)                       | :white_check_mark:  | :white_check_mark:     | :white_check_mark: | :x:                | :x:                | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark:     | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark:   |
| Ubuntu 16.04 (and derivatives)                       | :white_check_mark:  | :white_check_mark:     | :white_check_mark: | :x:                | :x:                | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark:     | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark:   |


## Common dependencies (Ubuntu)

Some dependencies must be installed for all the devices (for Debian guides, see [Debian 6.0.10](yarp-devices-install-on-debian-6.md)):

  - [Install CMake](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-cmake.md)
  - [Install YARP](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-yarp.md)

## Specific dependencies

Some devices require specific dependencies to work that must be satisfied. Use the following table to locate and install the dependencies required for your concrete application.

| Dependency | OneCanBusOneWrapper | TwoCanBusThreeWrappers | AravisGigE | CanBusControlboard | CanBusHico | CuiAbsolute | FakeJoint | Jr3 | LacqueyFetch | LeapMotionSensor* | ProximitySensorsClient | SpaceNavigator | TechnosoftIpos | TextilesHand | WiimoteSensor | AravisGigEController** |
| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [Aravis 0.4](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-aravis.md) |  :x: |  :x: | :white_check_mark: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: |
| [hcanpci (kernel module)](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-hcanpci.md) | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :x: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :x: |
| Python 3+ |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |
| [setuptools (pip3)](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-setuptools.md#install-setuptools-using-pip3) |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |
| [Custom yarp Python 3 bindings](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-yarp.md#install-python-bindings-with-iframegrabbercontrols2-support) | :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |
| [Spacenav](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-spacenav.md#install-spacenav-ubuntu) |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |
| [XWiimote](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-xwiimote.md#install-xwiimote-ubuntu) |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| [Leap Motion SDK v2](https://developer.leapmotion.com/sdk/v2)*** |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |

\* CMake find modules are smart enough to locate the SDK files in the usual paths. We recommend unzipping the `LeapSDK` folder in `/opt/LeapSDK` (make sure it contains `include/` and `lib/` at the top level).

\*\* See specific install instructions in the installation section.

\*\*\* Download link requires registration.

## Installation (Ubuntu)

For Debian guides, see [Debian 6.0.10](yarp-devices-install-on-debian-6.md).

Once the required dependencies have been installed, the code has to be compiled and installed. Note that you will be prompted for your password upon using `sudo` a couple of times:

```bash
cd  # go home
mkdir -p repos; cd repos  # make $HOME/repos if it doesn't exist; then, enter it
git clone https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/yarp-devices.git  # Download yarp-devices software from the repository
cd yarp-devices; mkdir build; cd build; cmake ..  # Configure the yarp-devices software
make  # Compile
sudo make install  # Install :-)
```

Remember to enable the devices you want to compile using `ccmake` instead of `cmake`.

### Useful info to install AravisGigEController

When installing AravisGigEController, take into account the following points:

* AravisGigEController requires Python 3+ with custom yarp Python bindings installed. Currently, installing them is not an easy task (see [comment348230791@roboticslab-uc3m/yarp-devices:145](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/yarp-devices/issues/145#issuecomment-348230791) and [roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides:26](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/issues/26)) but we expect this to change in the future.

* Setup.py should take care of automatically installing the remaining dependencies for AravisGigEController. But it sometimes returns an error trying to install PySide. In that case, you can try to install it from the software repository: `sudo apt install python3-pyside`

## Useful links

* [yarp-devices usage](yarp-devices-usage.md)
* [yarp-devices tricks](yarp-devices-tricks.md)

Commit message:

Mention YCM in non-Debian install guide
Follows up 1e0bb75. [skip ci]

doc/yarp-devices-install.md, after:

# Installation from Source Code

This repository stores different YARP devices for different actual devices used in different robots. This huge variability in hardware sometimes makes it complicated to track the dependencies for each device you may want to compile and install. 

This guide aims to simplify as much as possible the process of finding out which are the dependencies you actually need to install for the devices you want to use.

## OS Requirements

Some of the devices require a specific OS version to work. This table tracks the OS requirements:

* :white_check_mark: The device works in this OS.
* :x:  The device won't work on this OS.
* :question: The device hasn't been tested on this OS yet.


| OS                                                   | OneCanBusOneWrapper | TwoCanBusThreeWrappers | AravisGigE         | CanBusControlboard | CanBusHico         | CuiAbsolute        | FakeJoint          | Jr3                | LacqueyFetch       | LeapMotionSensor   | ProximitySensorsClient | SpaceNavigator     | TechnosoftIpos     | TextilesHand       | WiimoteSensor      | AravisGigEController |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | :-----------------: | :--------------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :--------------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :------------------: |
| [Debian 6.0.10](yarp-devices-install-on-debian-6.md) | :white_check_mark:  | :white_check_mark:     | :question:         | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :question:         | :white_check_mark:     | :question:         | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :question:         | :question:           |
| Ubuntu 14.04 (and derivatives)                       | :white_check_mark:  | :white_check_mark:     | :white_check_mark: | :x:                | :x:                | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark:     | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark:   |
| Ubuntu 16.04 (and derivatives)                       | :white_check_mark:  | :white_check_mark:     | :white_check_mark: | :x:                | :x:                | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark:     | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark:   |


## Common dependencies (Ubuntu)

Some dependencies must be installed for all the devices (for Debian guides, see [Debian 6.0.10](yarp-devices-install-on-debian-6.md)):

  - [Install CMake](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-cmake.md)
  - [Install YARP](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-yarp.md)

Additionally, this project depends on YCM to download and build external packages. Although this process is intended to run automatically during the CMake configuration phase, you may still want to install YCM and said packages by yourself. In that respect, refer to [Install YCM](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-ycm.md) and to the installation guides of any package listed below:
- [color-debug](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/color-debug)

## Specific dependencies

Some devices require specific dependencies to work that must be satisfied. Use the following table to locate and install the dependencies required for your concrete application.

| Dependency | OneCanBusOneWrapper | TwoCanBusThreeWrappers | AravisGigE | CanBusControlboard | CanBusHico | CuiAbsolute | FakeJoint | Jr3 | LacqueyFetch | LeapMotionSensor* | ProximitySensorsClient | SpaceNavigator | TechnosoftIpos | TextilesHand | WiimoteSensor | AravisGigEController** |
| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [Aravis 0.4](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-aravis.md) |  :x: |  :x: | :white_check_mark: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: |
| [hcanpci (kernel module)](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-hcanpci.md) | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :x: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | :x: |
| Python 3+ |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |
| [setuptools (pip3)](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-setuptools.md#install-setuptools-using-pip3) |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |
| [Custom yarp Python 3 bindings](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-yarp.md#install-python-bindings-with-iframegrabbercontrols2-support) | :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |
| [Spacenav](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-spacenav.md#install-spacenav-ubuntu) |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |
| [XWiimote](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/blob/master/install-xwiimote.md#install-xwiimote-ubuntu) |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| [Leap Motion SDK v2](https://developer.leapmotion.com/sdk/v2)*** |  :x: |  :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: | :x: | :x: |  :x: | :x: | :x: | :white_check_mark: |

\* CMake find modules are smart enough to locate the SDK files in the usual paths. We recommend unzipping the `LeapSDK` folder in `/opt/LeapSDK` (make sure it contains `include/` and `lib/` at the top level).

\*\* See specific install instructions in the installation section.

\*\*\* Download link requires registration.

## Installation (Ubuntu)

For Debian guides, see [Debian 6.0.10](yarp-devices-install-on-debian-6.md).

Once the required dependencies have been installed, the code has to be compiled and installed. Note that you will be prompted for your password upon using `sudo` a couple of times:

```bash
cd  # go home
mkdir -p repos; cd repos  # make $HOME/repos if it doesn't exist; then, enter it
git clone https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/yarp-devices.git  # Download yarp-devices software from the repository
cd yarp-devices; mkdir build; cd build; cmake ..  # Configure the yarp-devices software
make  # Compile
sudo make install  # Install :-)
```

Remember to enable the devices you want to compile using `ccmake` instead of `cmake`.

### Useful info to install AravisGigEController

When installing AravisGigEController, take into account the following points:

* AravisGigEController requires Python 3+ with custom yarp Python bindings installed. Currently, installing them is not an easy task (see [comment348230791@roboticslab-uc3m/yarp-devices:145](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/yarp-devices/issues/145#issuecomment-348230791) and [roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides:26](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/installation-guides/issues/26)) but we expect this to change in the future.

* Setup.py should take care of automatically installing the remaining dependencies for AravisGigEController. But it sometimes returns an error trying to install PySide. In that case, you can try to install it from the software repository: `sudo apt install python3-pyside`

## Useful links

* [yarp-devices usage](yarp-devices-usage.md)
* [yarp-devices tricks](yarp-devices-tricks.md)
